Assignment in 6 Parts for Data Warehouse Course
Fall 2023

Purpose: Design and manipulation of a data warehouse.

Problem: The University of Savannah at Richmond Hill (USRH) has extracted data from three
data sets about her graduates for several years (Data are attached at the end of the
assignment). The authorities of the university want you to design a graduates data
warehouse. This data warehouse facilitates the study of the number of graduates for
different majors, degrees, colleges, GPAs, semesters, and/or any combination of them.
To satisfy the needs of the authorities do:

1. Integrate the extracted data as one source of data. Take care of the format and
semantic conflicts. Some information about the three data sources obtained from
the data dictionaries. If you have a question, then you can interview me as the
representative of the USRH via zoom. Explanations of all the actions that you
have taken and their justifications must be included in a word document. (Name
this document Project Report).

2. Design a data warehouse using one of the schemas presented in class. Justify your
choice of schema. For your schema, identify and justify dimensions and their
attributes, fact table and its attributes, concept and schema hierarchy (ies) for each
dimension. All of your dimensions, their table’s definitions, and justifications
along with all of your diagrams (Only the computer-generated diagrams are
acceptable) must be included in the document Project Report under proper
headings of your choice.

3. Create your data warehouse (as a database) using MYSQL (a free relational
database management system, RDBMS, that can be downloaded from internet).
Populate your data warehouse using the integrated data. Your mechanism for
finding “facts” out of the integrated data for using in the subject table of your data
warehouse is of a great interest. Clearly describe how your mechanism of choice
does the work.
 Your explanations and justifications about the data warehouse creation and the
mechanism for the “fact” findings must be included in the Project Report
document under proper headings of your choice.

4. Write an interface for the data warehouse (Computer language of your choice) that
mimics an OLAP system. That is, for the cuboid of your data warehouse user can
issue a sequence of OLAP operations to express a query against the interface.
Interface
Query in OLAP operations Query in SQL
The interface has two tasks: (i) help the user to enter the query in OLAP operations
by guiding the user and (ii) creates a set of SQL codes that will deliver the output
of the OLAP operations. Therefore, as one solution, a template may be created by
the interface to guide the user to fill in a template. By doing so, you can capture
the necessary information to be used by the SQL

The interface:
    a. Accepts a query expressed by the OLAP operations as input
    b. Converts the query into SQL statements
    c. Submits the SQL statement to MYSQL for implementation and displays
    the result produced by MYSQL.

5. Test your interface by implementing the following four queries using OLAP
operations: (Express each query using OLAP operations and convert the OLAP
operations into SQL statements by the help of the interface, and then implement
the SQL statements.)
    a. Get the number of graduates for the Cyber College for 89
    b. Get the number of graduates with a BS in Computer science in summer of 1988.
    c. Get the number of graduates with a high GPA in the college of business for Spring semesters of 90 and 92.
    d. Get the number of international students graduated in years 89, 90, and 91

For each one of the above queries, include the followings in the Project Report
under proper headings:
i. Query itself in plain English (as shown above),
ii. The query codes using OLAP operations by the help of the Interface (the
outcome of this step will be used as input to the interface),
iii. List of SQL codes produced by your interface from translation of the
output of step ii (above) into SQL, and
iv. The outcome produced by MYSQL implementing the output of step iii.
(You are not permitted to type this outcome. I must see the outcome as it
is generated by MYSQL. You may take a screen shot, print it, and then
include the printed image in your Project Report).

6. Add a cover page, table of contents, table of figures, introduction, and a conclusion
to your Project Report. Also, add your program codes as an appendix to the Project
Report and submit your Project Report by email to me not later than Nov. 27, 2023

7. You must submit your assignment on an incremental basis as follows:
    A. The deadline for submitting the completed item 1 (above) along with the
    Project Report of the completed item 1 to me is Oct. 2, 2023. (You can
    consider this deliverable as the first assignment for your course, and it will
    be graded accordingly).

    B. The deadline for submitting the completed items 2 (above) along with the
    Project Report of the assignment for the completed items 1and 2 to me is
    Oct. 13, 2023. (You can consider this deliverable as your second
    assignment, and it will be graded accordingly.)

    C. The deadline for submitting the completed item 3 (above) along with the
    Project Report of the assignment for the completed items 1, 2, and 3 to me
    is Oct. 26, 2023. (You can consider this deliverable as your Exam 2 and it
    will be graded accordingly.)

    D. The deadline for submitting the completed items 4, 5, and 6 (above) along
    with the Project Report of the assignment for the completed items 1, 2, 3, 4,
    5, and 6 to me is Nov. 27, 2023. (You can consider this deliverable as a
    take home test for your Final Exam, and it will be graded accordingly.)

    E. Every one of you will have a private zoom meeting with me on Nov. 29
    and Dec. 24 to demo your project. During this meeting, I will give you a query in plain English,
    You will write the query using OLAP operators by the help of the
    interface to generate the SQL codes and display them,
    Feed the codes to MYSQL and display the outcome.
        
    If your system fails, then the failure has a great effect on your score for the
    final exam.